hey guys
today i want to talk to you a little bit
about posture
and particularly my favorite cue when
i'm talking about
correcting posture now i usually teach
my athletes on the weight floor
women doing exercises like deadlifts
squatting
even their favorite biceps tricep
exercises
that it's important to hold the correct
posture but actually
the most common place that people fail
to hold the right posture
and has the most negative impact on
their overall
postural health is day-to-day tasks in
front of a computer
in front of a mobile phone and what we
normally see
is this upper back rounding forward head
posture
rounded shoulders and this is a very
common thing
even for myself and the cue that i like
to use
not only on the waist floor but for
everyone every time you hear the word
posture
the cue that i use is to imagine
reaching the crown of the head
to the ceiling now for years i've been
battling with
trying to help my clients and patients
with their posture and i used to always
think about posture
on the horizontal plane so i think about
rounded shoulders so pull the shoulders
back to correct the posture
now this doesn't actually work thinking
about forward back so that's on the
horizontal plane
instead of doing that start thinking
about posture
on the vertical plane so instead of
thinking forward back
think up and down now something that's
really useful to know is that our
shoulder blade position
works with our thoracic spine in
particular
when we extend our thoracic spine
which is exactly what we're doing when i
tell you to reach the crown of the head
to the ceiling
it sits our scapula or our shoulder
blades in the neutral
position on the flip side of that when
we're rounding our upper back
the coupled relationship with the
scapula
and the spine is to protract so
rounding upper back forward shoulders
protracted scapula
so next time you think about posture not
just when you're doing weights
also your day-to-day tasks in front of a
computer but even beyond that
i'm going to take it another step
forward a lot of sports a lot of the
athletes
that i teach come from rotational sports
so
throwing a punch throwing a ball
swinging a golf club
a lot of these sports rely a lot on
having a good
posture and something that's worth
knowing is that the majority of our
rotation
comes from the thoracic spine which is
exactly the part of the spine that we
are trying to
extend when we reach the crown of the
head to the ceiling now
what's important to know is we get a
much larger range of
motion in rotation when our thoracic
spine is in that extended position
which is what we're doing when we're
reaching the crown of the head to the
ceiling we are
lengthening our spine or extending our
thoracic spine so
those rotational sports i'm not going to
speak too much on behalf of those sports
because there's
obviously so many components to throwing
a punch it's not just about rotating
through the punch
you have to block at the same time so
there's so many other components but
whenever you
think of posture think about that cue
that is my
number one most successful tip that i
can give you is to reach the crown of
the head to the ceiling
next time you're performing a deadlift
next time you're throwing a ball
next time you're flexing in front of the
mirror
think about cue and feel the postural
gains